Yum groups and repositories.

This doc will cover two items:

1. How to use yum to list/install/remove/update groups of packages
2. How to make your own group list and insert them into your repository.


Yum supports the group commands:
   - grouplist
   - groupinfo
   - groupinstall
   - groupremove
   - groupupdate

Groups are read from the "group" xml data that is optionally available from
each repository. If yum has no repositories which support groups then none of 
the group operations will work. 


 - grouplist
   yum grouplist [hidden]
   
   This will list the installed and available groups for your system in two
   separate lists. If you pass the optional 'hidden' argument then all of 
   the groups which are set to 'no' in the group xml <uservisible> tag.

- groupinfo
  yum groupinfo groupname
  
  This will give you detailed information for each group including:
  description, mandatory, default and optional packages.

- groupinstall, groupupdate
  yum groupinstall groupname
  yum groupupdate groupname

  Despite their differing names both of these commands perform the same
  function. They will attempt to install/update all of the packages in the
  group that are of the types 'default' or 'mandatory' (by default).
  (To change this types of packages edit the value of the group_package_types 
  option in yum.conf.) And they will install any additional dependencies 
  needed by any of the installing/updating packages.

- groupremove
  yum groupremove groupname
  
  This will remove all packages, of any type, in the named group. It will also
  remove any package that depends on any of these packages.
   


Setting up your own groups in your own repository:

This process is pretty easy, just two steps:
 1. create a file in the groups format used by yum
 2. tell createrepo to include that group file in your repository.


Step 1:
  You can either open a text editor and create the xml file matching or you
  can run the groups-create command from yum-utils. An example file is 
  available here: fill-in-example-url
  Run the groups-create command like this:
    groups-create --outfile=mygroups.xml
  Follow the prompts then you'll have a functional groups file for yum in
  mygroups.xml

Step 2:
  To include this in a repository, just tell createrepo to use it when [re]making
  your repository.

  createrepo -g /path/to/mygroups.xml /srv/my/repo




